i'm johnny from expert boxing right now
I'm going to talk to you about the
difference between throwing punches with
a vertical fist versus throwing punches
with a horizontal fist
vertical fisted punches okay with this
fist standing up like this these are
generally easier less effort less energy
because you're not using the extra
energy and focus to rotate this arm over
you just kind of fling it forward so for
that reason because it's easier I would
say it's a little faster generally a
little faster and for that reason you'll
see guys um you know when they throw
Shushan combinations they're using a
vertical fist okay that's just because
it's less energy and that's also why
when you get tired you end up throwing
with vertical fisted punches because
you're not turning over your your fists
anymore
given the way you stand okay your fists
are naturally a vertical when you stand
naturally they're not like this they
shouldn't be like this
your stand like this you have an
overdeveloped chest or something
overdevelop front shoulders tactically
strategically vertical fisted punches
are great for splitting a guard right up
the middle if you have an opponent
that's like this vertical fist punch
more likely to sneak through or if you
want to throw your around your
opponent's guard it's mimic maybe as an
elbow down type and you want to throw
around you want to get around here or
yes this guard ahadees going to throw
around it's probably easier to throw it
with the vertical fist and punch this
has easier to just loop around also
let's say he blocks it's probably less
painful for your wrist to catch in this
angle then to hit make contact at this
angle this is kind of painful small
detail not a big difference
horizontal punches are generally I would
say more powerful because when you
rotate this fist you look at my elbow
the elbow comes up faster okay if I go
vertical fisted punch it out what kind
of stays down so there's less power and
you want you want this up this will give
you more power for the wrist more
support okay at the same time it's also
more effort more energy because now you
have to you know you have to do this at
long range when I'm throwing a long
punch it almost kind of doesn't matter
because the punch was straightened out
anyway it has time at short distance
right here inside
this range or mid range right here
i'vei've a guy who's right next to me
and I come up and I and I pop them like
that okay
maybe not as much power if I do this I
can get a lot of power even though this
fist is only moving three four inches
but because I did more work back here I
was able to put more leverage more crank
into that shot I can also crank the
opposite way instead of going vertical
or asana this way I can go horizontal
this way
upper cut so this helps crank when you
throw an uppercut with the vertical
fisted a vertical fist its shoulder
becomes a shoulder punch you can try it
yourself and feel if I turn it
horizontal like this and throw it now
you feel it's easier for me to get more
back muscle into it so for that reason
uppercuts are probably more powerful
this way than they are this way even
though you can do both the major
difference really it has to do with your
strategy where are you ain't okay if I'm
aiming up here and I'm going straight
horizontal vertical kinda doesn't matter
if it gets in it gets in if I'm throwing
a medium okay
this lower range and I'm throwing
straight okay maybe this is more
comfortable maybe this is you know this
depends depends how low you are if I'm
throwing really straight down maybe this
is not as comfortable maybe I have to
turn it this way right so it's a little
bit of enough maybe this one comfortable
Europe if I'm throwing around low level
and I'm throwing around then you know
this is more comfortable or upside down
but probably not like this this is not
as good for the risk now the tricky one
is throwing over over again okay but I'm
trying to throw my my punch over the
opponent's jab and down into his chin I
can't do that with the vertical fist the
elbow does not allow me to bend that way
so you see guys that don't turn their
punches over and they want to throw an
overhand what ends up having me they
have to do this to get the punch over
right you have to lean on balance but
all you have to do is just turn ok just
time the elbow will come up it will give
you the angle to come over some guys you
know they they turn it all the way over
so it's like upside down vertical fist
up to you the main key difference is
what you're trying to do with the punch
you know tactically and strategically
what you're trying to do it's not really
a set rule of always being vertical
fisted or always being horizontal fisted
I say do everything use everything and
use what works in the situation I'm John
from xboxes subscribe to my youtube
channel and also check out my website
expert boxing calm thanks for watching